Migrate using Oracle GoldenGate (#17769)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/v23.1/goldengate.md

## Configure Oracle GoldenGate for CockroachDB

This section describes how to configure Oracle GoldenGate to treat CockroachDB as PostgreSQL. Note that this is referring to Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL, the process that pulls data from trail files over to CockroachDB, which is a separate installation from Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle. For more information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate-postgresql.htm). The examples below will use a [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-a-serverless-cluster).

1. Set up the `ODBC.ini` file on Oracle GoldenGate host, and make sure your CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster's [root CA certificate](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/connect-to-a-serverless-cluster#connect-to-your-cluster) is in the `TrustStore` path:

    ~~~
    # This is needed so that all the Postgres libraries can be found

>     export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib

Reviewer: You may want to note that this path is arbitrary but pretty much is a concatenation of the path to your `PostgreSQL libraries` and `Golden Gate installation directory`

    # This is needed so that OGG knows where to look for connection details for the database
    export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

    vi /etc/odbc.ini

    # Inside put this: replace the details for log in with your own. Be sure to prefix the database name with {hostname}.{db}
    # No changes should be needed for CRDBLOCAL
    [ODBC Data Sources]
    PG_src=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    PG_tgt=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    CRDB=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol

    [ODBC]
    IANAAppCodePage=4

>     InstallDir=/u01/ggs-pg

Reviewer: `Oracle Golden Gate for PostgreSQL` installation directory. Would be good to call out

    [CRDBSERVERLESS]

>     Driver=/u01/ggs-pg/lib/GGpsql25.so

Reviewer: Note that this driver will always point to where your `Oracle Golden Gate for PostgreSQL` installation is and will be in the lib folder and contain the `psql` string.

    Description=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    Database={host name}.defaultdb
    HostName={host}
    PortNumber=26257
    LogonID={your sql user}
    Password={your sql user's pass}
    EncryptionMethod=1 
    ValidateServerCertificate=1 
    TrustStore=/root/.postgresql/root.crt
    ~~~

1. Ensure that all the PostgreSQL libraries are installed and referenced in the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`. 
    
    The path should at least include `/usr/pgsql-13/lib` and `/u01/ggs-pg/lib`.

> 1. Log in to the database:

Reviewer: Why are there two numbered steps with the same number? "1" and "1"

Author: This is a quirk of Markdown. The steps should all be 1 but render correctly: https://deploy-preview-17769--cockroachdb-docs.netlify.app/docs/v23.1/goldengate.html

    ~~~
    cd /u01/ggs-pg
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib
    export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

    ./ggsci

    # To log into the local database
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBLOCAL

    # To log into the serverless database and then enter your password
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBSERVERLESS
    ~~~

## Set up Extract

[Extract](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.htm) is Oracle GoldenGate's data capture mechanism that is configured to run against the source database.

> 1. In a terminal:

Reviewer: In a terminal where the `Oracle Golden Gate for Oracle` is installed.

    ~~~
    # Setup the environment variables for the Oracle source, which includes the ORACLE_HOME, TNS_ADMIN, LD_LIBRARY_PATH, and ORACLE_SID

    cd /u01/ggs # Otherwise known as $OGG_HOME
    ./ggsci

    # Inside the ggsci terminal run these
    edit param epos

    view param epos

    # This is the resulting output
    # This section will run an extract on the source Oracle DB and then send that data over to the trail file at `./dirdat/ab` on the remote host.
    EXTRACT epos
    USERIDALIAS gg_source
    RMTHOST {host-name}, MGRPORT {port}
    RMTTRAIL ./dirdat/ab
    TABLE OGGADM1.testtable;

    # Back in the ./ggsci terminal
    add extract epos, tranlog, begin now
    add rmttrail ./dirdat/ab, extract epos megabytes 10

    # This is crucial in order to address the logmining not found error
    register EXTRACT epos, DATABASE

    # Starts service
    start epos
    ~~~

> 1. Check the status of the Extract by adding a row to `oggadm1.testtable`, committing it to the source, and running the following:

Reviewer: Make sure to note that this is on the machine and in the directory that `Oracle Golden Gate for Oracle` is installed.

    ~~~
    # CREATE TABLE IN ORACLE FIRST
    create table OGGADM1.testtable (col1 number, col2 varchar2(20));
    alter table OGGADM1.testtable add primary key (col1);

    # IN ORACLE
    INSERT INTO OGGADM1.testtable (col1, col2) VALUES (11, 'Example data');
    COMMIT;

>     # IN GGSCI in another terminal

Reviewer: This is just a sanity check of the extract process. Not a needed step, but good to call out as diagnostic.

        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           1.00
    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
        Total inserts                              1.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           1.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
        Total inserts                              1.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           1.00
    End of statistics.
    ~~~

## Set up Replicat

[Replicat](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.htm) is an Oracle process that reads trail files and delivers data to a target database.

> 1. First, make sure you can log into the database from `./ggsci`:

Reviewer: Make sure to note that this and all other steps in Replicat are on the machine and the directory for `Oracle Golden Gate for PostgreSQL`.

---
title: Migrate and Replicate Data with Oracle GoldenGate
summary: Use GoldenGate to migrate data to a CockroachDB cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: migrate
---

> [Oracle GoldenGate](https://www.oracle.com/integration/goldengate/) offers a managed service that can collect, replicate, and manage transactional data between databases. GoldenGate can use CockroachDB as a sink by leveraging CockroachDB's PostgreSQL-compatibility. This page describes how to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Oracle GoldenGate](https://www.oracle.com/integration/goldengate/) is a service that can collect, replicate, and manage transactional data between databases. GoldenGate can use CockroachDB as a sink by leveraging CockroachDB's PostgreSQL-compatibility. This page describes how to:
```

For limitations on what PostgreSQL and CockroachDB features are supported, refer to Oracle's [Details of Supported PostgreSQL Data Types](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/understanding-whats-supported-postgresql.html).

## Before you begin

- Oracle GoldenGate runs as a process separate from CockroachDB and the source database. Ensure your host meets the [minimum requirements](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/installing/overview.html).

- Install the [Oracle for Postgres Libraries](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) and ensure [libpg](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) is available on the Oracle GoldenGate host:

- Ensure that you have an Oracle client installed that is compatible with the host Oracle version. This can be done by doing a full Oracle install, or just the client libraries.

- Ensure that you have the two required Oracle GoldenGate installations:

    1. [Oracle Golden Gate for Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) is required to pull source data and route it to proper trail files.

>     1. [Oracle Golden Gate for PostgreSQL](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) is required to pull data from the trail files to CockroachD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. [Oracle Golden Gate for PostgreSQL](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) is required to pull data from the trail files to CockroachDB.
```

~~~
# This is needed so that all the Postgres libraries can be found
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib

# This is needed so that OGG knows where to look for connection details for the database
export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

vi /etc/odbc.ini

# Inside put this: replace the details for log in with your own. Be sure to prefix the database name with {hostname}.{db}
# No changes should be needed for CRDBLOCAL
[ODBC Data Sources]
PG_src=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
PG_tgt=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
CRDB=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol

[ODBC]
IANAAppCodePage=4
InstallDir=/u01/ggs-pg

[CRDBSERVERLESS]
Driver=/u01/ggs-pg/lib/GGpsql25.so
Description=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
Database={host name}.defaultdb
HostName={host}
PortNumber=26257
LogonID={your sql user}
Password={your sql user's pass}
EncryptionMethod=1 
ValidateServerCertificate=1 
TrustStore=/root/.postgresql/root.crt
~~~

1. Ensure that all the PostgreSQL libraries are installed and referenced in the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`. The path should at least include `/usr/pgsql-13/lib` and `/u01/ggs-pg/lib`.

1. Log in to the database:

~~~

> sudo su -

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    Total inserts                              4.00
    Total updates                              0.00
    Total deletes                              0.00
    Total upserts                              0.00
    Total discards                             0.00
    Total operations                           4.00
*** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
    Total inserts                              4.00
    Total updates                              0.00
    Total deletes                              0.00
    Total upserts                              0.00
    Total discards                             0.00
    Total operations                           4.00
*** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
    Total inserts                              4.00
    Total updates                              0.00
    Total deletes                              0.00
    Total upserts                              0.00
    Total discards                             0.00
    Total operations                           4.00
End of statistics.
GGSCI (ip-172-31-0-218.ec2.internal as oggadm1@ORCL) 31>

# In GGSCI for PG
cd $OGG_PG_HOME
./ggsci

> GGSCI (ip-172-31-0-218.ec2.internal) 7> stats REPLICAT RORPSQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GGSCI (host.name) 7> stats REPLICAT RORPSQL
```

Should clean up these hostnames wherever we find them to avoid confusion

- [Configure Oracle GoldenGate for CockroachDB](#configure-oracle-goldengate-for-cockroachdb)
- [Set up Extract](#set-up-extract)
- [Set up Replicat](#set-up-replicat)
- [Bulk replication](#bulk-replication)

As of this writing, GoldenGate supports the following database [sources](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/coredoc/configure-databases.htm):

- MySQL
- Oracle
- PostgreSQL
- SQL Server
- Db2 z/OS

This page describes the GoldenGate functionality at a high level and assumes some familiarity with this tool. For detailed information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/index.htm).

For limitations on what PostgreSQL and CockroachDB features are supported, refer to Oracle's [Details of Supported PostgreSQL Data Types](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/understanding-whats-supported-postgresql.htm).

## Before you begin

- Oracle GoldenGate runs as a process separate from CockroachDB and the source database. Ensure your host meets the [minimum requirements](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/installing/overview.htm).

> - Install the [Oracle for Postgres Libraries](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.htm) and ensure [libpg](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) is available on the Oracle GoldenGate host.

Author: I assumed just the first one, but @ryanluu12345 do you know if users need to install GoldenGate Microservices?

> - Install the [Oracle for Postgres Libraries](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.htm) and ensure [libpg](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) is available on the Oracle GoldenGate host.

Reviewer: @gemma-shay I don't think they need to install that. Only the OGG for PostgreSQL and for Oracle (two total).

> - Install the [Oracle for Postgres Libraries](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.htm) and ensure [libpg](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) is available on the Oracle GoldenGate host.

Author: ok I think maybe this was a redundant Oracle for PostgreSQL install step then, going to remove

    ~~~

    For versions of CockroachDB v22.2 and later, these settings are already enabled by default.

- Ensure you have a secure, publicly available CockroachDB cluster running the latest **{{ page.version.version }}** [production release](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.version.version }}), and have created a [SQL user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#sql-users).

## Configure Oracle GoldenGate for CockroachDB

This section describes how to configure Oracle GoldenGate to treat CockroachDB as PostgreSQL. Note that this is referring to Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL, the process that pulls data from trail files over to CockroachDB, which is a separate installation from Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle. For more information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate-postgresql.htm). The examples below will use a [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-a-serverless-cluster).

> 

Reviewer: `defaultdb` is the default, so yes `{database}` is appropriate to generalize this here.

I think the `export` calls are redundant. They just need to be set once, preferably after all of these directories actually have content (you finished installing or creating the .ini file)

> 

Author: Moving the export steps after the .ini file step and removing them from the login step, lmk if this still looks correct

    HostName={host}
    PortNumber=26257
    LogonID={your sql user}
    Password={your sql user's pass}
    EncryptionMethod=1 
    ValidateServerCertificate=1 
    TrustStore=/root/.postgresql/root.crt
    ~~~

1. Ensure that all the PostgreSQL libraries are installed and referenced in the `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`. 
    
    The path should at least include `/usr/pgsql-13/lib` and `/u01/ggs-pg/lib`.

1. Log in to the database:

    ~~~
    cd /u01/ggs-pg
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib
    export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

    ./ggsci

    # To log into the local database
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBLOCAL

    # To log into the serverless database and then enter your password
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBSERVERLESS
    ~~~

## Set up Extract

[Extract](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.htm) is Oracle GoldenGate's data capture mechanism that is configured to run against the source database.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}
The steps in this section should be run on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle is installed.
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. In a terminal:

    ~~~

>     # Setup the environment variables for the Oracle source, which includes the ORACLE_HOME, TNS_ADMIN, LD_LIBRARY_PATH, and ORACLE_SID

Reviewer: The ENV vars are set up here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QflFAdWH1AzKUuW8vjzyFWV4UGtOIkMO4W73F_WkR0k/edit?disco=AAAA33PYgT8

So if these are not reflected in the docs here, then you'll need to add snippets for those 3 environment variables.

        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           4.00
    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 19:10:20 ***
        Total inserts                              4.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           4.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 19:10:20 ***
        Total inserts                              4.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           4.00
    End of statistics.
    GGSCI ({host-name}) 8> 
    ~~~

## Bulk replication

> 1. Keep the [Extract process](#set-up-extract) running on Oracle and the [Replicat process](#set-up-replicat) running for PostgreSQL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Keep the [Extract process](#set-up-extract) running on Oracle and the [Replicat process](#set-up-replicat) running for CockroachDB.
```

> 1. In the source database, bulk insert:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the source database, bulk insert some data:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: The following statement should be formatted:

```
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
INSERT INTO OGGADM1.testtable2 (col1, col2)
SELECT level + 99, 'Example data'
FROM dual
CONNECT BY level <= 50000 - 99;
~~~
```

    ~~~
    INSERT INTO OGGADM1.testtable2 (col1, col2)
    SELECT level + 99, 'Example data'
    FROM dual
    CONNECT BY level <= 50000 - 99;
    ~~~

> 1. Run the status command on the Extract `ggsci` terminal.

Reviewer 3: @ryanluu12345 Do we need to define EPOS2 somewhere?

```suggestion
1. Run the status command on the Extract GGSCI terminal:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    stats EXTRACT EPOS2
    ~~~
```

Reviewer: Oh yes, I think that might be a copy and paste error. I think in these set of docs it shows the set of steps where we created `EPOS`. So this should be `stats EXTRACT EPOS` or if you want to be more general: `stats EXTRACT <name of your extract task>`

Author: the first mention of `epos` i can find is the command `edit param epos`. did that step create it?

Reviewer: Yes, this `edit param epos` creates the epos file. It actually opens up an editor for you to put in the contents:
```
# Inside the ggsci terminal run these
edit param epos

# This is the resulting output
# Note that RMTHOST is the server's internal host name: "hostname" command
# The MGRPORT is the port that the PostgreSQL GGSCI manager is running on (8200 as defined above)
# The USERIDALIAS is something I created with credential store, but you can use USERID <user>, PASSWORD <password>
EXTRACT epos
USERIDALIAS gg_source
RMTHOST ip-172-31-0-218.ec2.internal, MGRPORT 8200
RMTTRAIL ./dirdat/ab
TABLE OGGADM1.testtable;

# Save and close

# Then run this
view param epos
```

    You will see an output similar to the following:

    ~~~
    GGSCI ({host-name}) 10> STATS EXTRACT EPOS2
    Sending STATS request to Extract group EPOS2 ...
    Start of statistics at 2023-06-09 21:09:06.

>     Output to ./dirdat/bb:

Reviewer 3: Remove all lines above "Extracting from".

        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 21:02:39 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 21:02:39 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    End of statistics.
    ~~~

> 1. Run the status command on the Replicat `ggsci` terminal.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Run the status command on the Replicat GGSCI terminal:

	{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
	~~~ shell
	stats REPLICAT RORPSQL
	~~~
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~
    EXTRACT epos
    USERIDALIAS gg_source
    RMTHOST {host-name}, MGRPORT {port}
    RMTTRAIL ./dirdat/ab
    TABLE OGGADM1.testtable;
    ~~~

1. In the GGSCI terminal, run the following and start the Extract service.

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    add extract epos, tranlog, begin now
    add rmttrail ./dirdat/ab, extract epos megabytes 10

    # This is crucial in order to address the logmining not found error
    register EXTRACT epos, DATABASE

    # Starts service
    start epos
    ~~~

1. Check the status of the Extract by creating a test table `OGGADM1.testtable` in Oracle and adding a row:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    CREATE TABLE OGGADM1.testtable (col1 number, col2 varchar2(20));
    ALTER TABLE OGGADM1.testtable ADD PRIMARY KEY (col1);
    INSERT INTO OGGADM1.testtable (col1, col2) VALUES (11, 'Example data');
    COMMIT;
    ~~~

1. In GGSCI, in another terminal, check that Extract is working correctly:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}

>     ~~~ shell

Reviewer 3: I have a feeling that this snippet simply needs to be `stats EXTRACT EPOS` to produce the following output. See Step 9 in the Replicat section.

Currently, this looks like a repeat of steps 1 and 2 in this section. Maybe @ryanluu12345 can confirm.

Reviewer: Yep, you can just use `stats EXTRACT EPOS` since that will show the output of how many CRUD operations happened. The `view param epos` is a good sanity check to make sure there is a process named epos running, but is entirely optional. You can probably include it as an optional sanity check step

---
title: Migrate and Replicate Data with Oracle GoldenGate
summary: Use GoldenGate to migrate data to a CockroachDB cluster.
toc: true
docs_area: migrate
---

[Oracle GoldenGate](https://www.oracle.com/integration/goldengate/) is a managed service that can collect, replicate, and manage transactional data between databases. GoldenGate can use CockroachDB as a sink by leveraging CockroachDB's PostgreSQL compatibility. This page describes how to:

- [Configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL](#configure-oracle-goldengate-for-postgresql).
- [Set up Extract to capture data from a source database](#set-up-extract-to-capture-data-from-a-source-database).
- [Set up Replicat to deliver data to CockroachDB](#set-up-replicat-to-deliver-data-to-cockroachdb).
- [Perform bulk replication](#perform-bulk-replication).

> As of this writing, GoldenGate supports the following database [sources](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/coredoc/configure-databases.html):

Reviewer 4: cc @nickvigilante This is an instance where removing `/en/` actually results in a 404.

Reviewer 5: It seems like the exceptions is not functioning as I expect it to. I think this was related to a problem in Vale, not so much my code. I'll investigate again.

- MySQL
- Oracle
- PostgreSQL
- SQL Server
- Db2 z/OS

> This page describes the GoldenGate functionality at a high level and assumes some familiarity with this tool. For detailed information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/index.html).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This page describes GoldenGate at a high level and assumes some familiarity with this tool. For detailed information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/index.html).
```

For limitations on what PostgreSQL features are supported, refer to Oracle's [Details of Supported PostgreSQL Data Types](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/understanding-whats-supported-postgresql.html).

## Before you begin

- Oracle GoldenGate runs as a process separate from CockroachDB and the source database. Ensure your host meets the [minimum requirements](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/21.3/installing/overview.html).

> - Ensure that you have an Oracle client installed that is compatible with the host Oracle version. This can be done by doing a full Oracle install, or just the client libraries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that your Oracle client or client libraries are compatible with the host Oracle version.
```

> - Ensure that you have the two required Oracle GoldenGate installations:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Ensure that you have installed both required Oracle GoldenGate components:
```

    1. [Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) is required to pull source data and route it to proper [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html).
    1. [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL](https://www.oracle.com/middleware/technologies/goldengate-downloads.html) is required to pull data from the trail files to CockroachDB.
- For CockroachDB clusters running v22.1 and earlier, enable the following [cluster settings]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/cluster-settings.md %}):

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ sql
    SET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.datestyle.enabled = true;
    SET CLUSTER SETTING sql.defaults.intervalstyle.enabled = true;
    ~~~

>     For versions of CockroachDB v22.2 and later, these settings are already enabled by default.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    For CockroachDB v22.2 and later, these settings are enabled by default.
```

> - Ensure [libpg](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) is available on the Oracle GoldenGate host.

Reviewer 4: Add `libpg` to `accept.txt`

> - Ensure you have a secure, publicly available CockroachDB cluster running the latest **{{ page.version.version }}** [production release](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/{{ page.version.version }}), and have created a [SQL user]({% link {{ page.version.version }}/security-reference/authorization.md %}#sql-users).

Reviewer 4: What does "publicly available" mean here?

## Configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL

> This section describes how to configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL to work with CockroachDB. Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL is the process that pulls data from [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) over to CockroachDB. Note that this is a separate installation from Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle, which will be used to pull source data and route it to proper [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html). For more information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate-postgresql.html). The following example uses a [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-a-serverless-cluster).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This section describes how to configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL to work with CockroachDB. Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL is the process that pulls data from [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) over to CockroachDB. This is a separate installation from Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle, which will be used to pull source data and route it to proper [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html). For more information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate-postgresql.html). The following example uses a [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-a-serverless-cluster).
```

> 1. Edit the following parameters in the `ODBC.ini` file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Edit the the `ODBC.ini` file to set up the ODBC data sources and configuration:
```

>     Set up the ODBC data sources and configuration:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~
    # No changes should be needed for CRDBLOCAL
    [ODBC Data Sources]
    PG_src=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    PG_tgt=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    CRDB=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol

    [ODBC]
    IANAAppCodePage=4
    # The following path is your Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL installation directory
    InstallDir=/u01/ggs-pg
    ~~~
    
1. Ensure that all the PostgreSQL libraries are installed and referenced in `LD_LIBRARY_PATH`. 

    The path should at least include `/usr/pgsql-13/lib` and `/u01/ggs-pg/lib`:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    # The path is a concatenation of your PostgreSQL libraries and GoldenGate installation directory
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib
    ~~~

1. Set up the `ODBC.ini` file for the Oracle GoldenGate host:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    # This is needed so that OGG knows where to look for connection details for the database
    export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

>     vi /etc/odbc.ini

Reviewer 4: Is the last line a stray?

Author: @ryanluu12345

Reviewer 4: I think you intend for them to open the odbc.ini in their editor, but if they copy-paste this code block, they will unexpectedly be in `vi`, which is like Hotel California. I suggest splitting the editing into a separate step and not specifying the editor.

>     ~~~

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    ~~~
    
    To make this change permanent, you must also add the command to your shell's configuration file, such as `~/.zshrc`.

```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~
    [CRDBSERVERLESS]
    # The following driver will always point to your Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL installation
    Driver=/u01/ggs-pg/lib/GGpsql25.so
    Description=DataDirect 7.1 PostgreSQL Wire Protocol
    Database={hostname}.{database}
    HostName={host}
    PortNumber=26257
    LogonID={your sql user}
    Password={your sql user's pass}
    EncryptionMethod=1 
    ValidateServerCertificate=1 
    TrustStore=/root/.postgresql/root.crt
    ~~~
        
1. Log in to the database:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    cd /u01/ggs-pg

    ./ggsci

    # To log into the local database
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBLOCAL

    # To log into the serverless database and then enter your password
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBSERVERLESS
    ~~~     

## Set up Extract to capture data from a source database

[Extract](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) is Oracle GoldenGate's data capture mechanism that is configured to run against the source database.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> The steps in this section should be run on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle is installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Complete the steps in this section on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle is installed.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> 1. Inside the GGSCI terminal, create and open the `epos` parameter file for the Oracle source:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the GGSCI terminal, create and open the `epos` parameter file for the Oracle source:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    cd /u01/ggs # Otherwise known as $OGG_HOME
    ./ggsci

    edit param epos
    view param epos
    ~~~

> 1. Edit the following parameters:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Edit the parameters that configure Extract to send data to the trail file at `./dirdat/ab` on the remote host:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~

>     # This section will run an extract on the source Oracle DB and then send that data over to the trail file at `./dirdat/ab` on the remote host.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    EXTRACT epos
    USERIDALIAS gg_source
    RMTHOST {host-name}, MGRPORT {port}
    RMTTRAIL ./dirdat/ab
    TABLE OGGADM1.testtable;
    ~~~

> 1. Back in the GGSCI terminal, run the following and start the Extract service:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the GGSCI terminal, start the Extract service:
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    add extract epos, tranlog, begin now
    add rmttrail ./dirdat/ab, extract epos megabytes 10

>     # This is crucial in order to address the logmining not found error

Reviewer 4: This kind of info might get lost if it is in a comment. Consider adding it near line 158 instead.

    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
        Total inserts                              1.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           1.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 19:06:44 ***
        Total inserts                              1.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                           1.00
    End of statistics.
    ~~~

## Set up Replicat to deliver data to CockroachDB

[Replicat](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) is an Oracle process that reads [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) and delivers data to a target database.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> The steps in this section should be run on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL is installed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Run the steps in this section on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL is installed.
```

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

1. Log in to the database from GGSCI:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/pgsql-13/lib:/u01/ggs-pg/lib
    export ODBCINI=/etc/odbc.ini

    cd /u01/ggs-pg
    ./ggsci

    # Log into the DB
    DBLOGIN SOURCEDB CRDBLOCAL
    ~~~

1. Check the status in the GGSCI terminal:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    info all
    ~~~

    You should see the following output:

    ~~~
    Program     Status      Group       Lag at Chkpt  Time Since Chkpt
    MANAGER     RUNNING                                           
    ~~~

1. Open the parameter file:

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~ shell
    edit param RORPSQL 
    view param RORPSQL 
    ~~~

> 1. Edit the following parameters. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Edit the parameters to configure the `MAP` statement, which maps the source (OGGADM1.testtable) to the target (public.testtable).
```

>     The `MAP` statement maps the source (OGGADM1.testtable) to the target (public.testtable).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

    {% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
    ~~~
    REPLICAT RORPSQL
    SETENV ( PGCLIENTENCODING = "UTF8" )
    SETENV (ODBCINI="/etc/odbc.ini" )
    SETENV (NLS_LANG="AMERICAN_AMERICA.AL32UTF8")
    TARGETDB CRDBLOCAL
    DISCARDFILE ./dirrpt/diskg.dsc, purge
    MAP OGGADM1.testtable, TARGET public.testtable, COLMAP (COL1=col1,COL2=col2);
    ~~~

> 1. Back in the GGSCI terminal, run the following and start the Replicat service:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the GGSCI terminal, run the following and start the Replicat service:
```

        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 21:02:39 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 21:02:39 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    End of statistics.
    ~~~

1. Run the status command on the Replicat GGSCI terminal:

>     You'll notice that the number of inserts will take a few minutes to update. Once the process finishes inserting and committing to the database, it will report back the final inserts. During the process, it will show the previous state:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The number of inserts takes a few minutes to update. After the process finishes inserting and committing to the database, it will report back the final inserts. During the process, it will show the previous state:
```

        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Hourly statistics since 2023-06-09 21:04:05 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    *** Latest statistics since 2023-06-09 21:04:05 ***
        Total inserts                          49903.00
        Total updates                              0.00
        Total deletes                              0.00
        Total upserts                              0.00
        Total discards                             0.00
        Total operations                       49903.00
    End of statistics.
    ~~~
    
    To verify that the insert is happening, you can run: `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM public.testtable;`. The query will hang while it's still inserting.

> 1. To see where the replication is processing while it's ongoing, view the report:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. To track the status of an ongoing replication, view the report:
```

## Configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL

This section describes how to configure Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL to work with CockroachDB. Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL is the process that pulls data from [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) over to CockroachDB. This is a separate installation from Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle, which will be used to pull source data and route it to proper [trail files](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html). For more information, refer to the [Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/gghdb/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate-postgresql.html). The following example uses a [CockroachDB {{ site.data.products.serverless }} cluster](https://cockroachlabs.com/docs/cockroachcloud/create-a-serverless-cluster).

> 1. Edit the the `ODBC.ini` file to set up the ODBC data sources and configuration:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Edit the `ODBC.ini` file to set up the ODBC data sources and configuration:
```

[Extract](https://docs.oracle.com/goldengate/c1230/gg-winux/GGCON/processes-and-terminology.html) is Oracle GoldenGate's data capture mechanism that is configured to run against the source database.

{{site.data.alerts.callout_success}}

> Complete the steps in this section on a machine and in a directory where Oracle GoldenGate for Oracle is installed.

Reviewer 4: I think you might have an extra "for Oracle" here.

Author: unfortunately i think that is the correct product name, as awkward as it sounds. the other installation is called Oracle GoldenGate for PostgreSQL.

{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> 1. In the GGSCI terminal, create and open the `epos` parameter file for the Oracle source:

Reviewer 4: @nickvigilante oxford comma false positive.

Reviewer 5: Vale has been disabled for all new PRs.
